look at that guy he thinks these
players
how do you fight a man invited
women and everyone in between
trace here with some brain
nutrition for you for dnews
vitamin D is everywhere in our
diets these days sort of you can
get it in cereal milk orange
juices and other fortified foods
as well as in fatty fish egg
yolks and a few other places but
mostly vitamin D comes from you
from your skin you make it
vitamin D is actually a group of
five fat soluble molecules and
it's the main animal version d3
that promotes the absorption of
calcium for our bones without
vitamin D adults can experience
osteomalacia pain and weakness
and children can develop
Ricketts a softening of the
bones growth plates which can
lead to bowed legs bottom line
d 3 it's real important but
let's get back to this skin
thing
plants have photosynthesis right
well we have dermal vitamin
synthesis deep in the skin is a
steroid called 7d Hydra
cholesterol and when that is hit
by UVB radiation from the Sun
the sun's photons break one of
its chemical bonds which convert
it to cholecalciferol the
science name for vitamin d3 once
the d3 is created the liver and
kidneys convert that to its
final form calciner all process
but it all starts with exposure
from a nuclear fusion ball
millions of miles away
that's awesome once created in
the kidneys a protein called DVP
or vitamin D binding protein
grabs it and transports it to
the organs where it starts a
cascade of effects from building
bones by balancing the calcium
and phosphate in the body to
maintaining nervous system
function
vitamin D is even essential in
helping DNA to express between a
hundred and twelve hundred and
fifty jeans
there are also studies which
hypothesize vitamin D or
calciner all helps treat
autoimmune diseases diabetes
infections cognitive
degeneration and cancer and can
prevent heart disease
this stuff is apparently awesome
which is why we started putting
it everywhere
studies in Boston found in 1982
eighty-five percent of children
were afflicted with the skeletal
devastation that is Ricketts all
from a lack of vitamin D so in
the nineteen thirties the US
government asked food companies
-
add vitamin D or cod liver oil
to their products in a process
called fortification hoping to
eradicate the ricketts problem
milk and cereal producers have
been adding vitamin D their move
juice and flakes ever since and
it has worked as Ricketts has
been virtually eliminated in
most of the West today
the thing is remember there are
five forms of vitamin D and food
processors don't add d3 the
stuff we make in our skin they
add a different version
d - ergo Kosta for all plant
vitamin D not animal allegedly
our body treats them both the
same though that debate is on
going with some scientists
saying it's less efficient for
the body to convert
so you need more than if you
just went outside you can get
all the d3 you need with his
little as 5 to 15 minutes of
direct sunlight on your hands
arms and face
so for all the chatter and
praise vitamin D gets from the
media
you just make it however if
you're worried
yeah you can have too much but
it's hard vitamin D toxicity is
more of a risk for people taking
vitamin supplements and can
cause an increase in calcium
levels which results in heart
arrhythmias decreased appetite
and increased urination
it can even cause nausea
vomiting disorientation and the
like your body is trying to get
all of that excess calcium out
but you have to drink more than
40 cups of milk per day to
exceed the maximum daily dose so
it's more important to be
careful with calcium supplements
instead which again rd to not be
three
they work but remember there's a
debate vitamin D is just one of
many vitamins and minerals the
body needs every single day it
really struck me that the
process of making it from the
Sun is super complicated
evolution is amazing
speaking of all those vitamins
do they really improve your
health check out this video to
find out
smokers were given a daily
supplement vitamin E beta
carotene both or placebo the
group taking the supplements
were more likely to die of lung
cancer or heart disease in the
second study the group that took
supplements were dying from lung
cancer at a rate twenty percent
higher than those who didn't you
stand in the Sun for five
minutes or more a day or would
you rather just take a pill and
drink some milk
let us know in the comments make
sure you subscribe for more
dnews and we'll see you next
time
yeah